the war between Israel and Hamas is
entering its 100th day the fighting
erupted after Hamas launched a terrorist
attack on October 7th and Israel
responded with air strikes and a ground
invasion of the Gaza Strip since then
the toll has been devastating around
1200 people including 520 soldiers have
been killed on the Israeli side most of
them on the first day making October 7th
the deadliest day since the founding of
the Jewish State the Hamas run Health
Ministry in Gaza says almost 24,000
Palestinians have been killed that's 1%
of the population the Israeli military
says more than 7,000 of the Dead are
militants the UN says at least 300
Palestinians have been killed in the
West Bank Israel's military campaign has
damaged or destroyed around half of
gaza's buildings and displaced almost 2
million people DW reporter Muhammad alut
visited a refugee camp in the southern
city of Rafa to to learn more about the
difficult conditions displaced people fa
there re surur is living in difficult
circumstances here in a tent in Al maazi
in the city of Rafa in the south of the
Gaza Strip she was forced to flee her
home in Northern Gaza in search of safe
shelter displacement has deprived her of
even the most basic
necessities we are suffering here in
this
camp we cook over fire and we have to
carry water in buckets over long
distances often there's no access to
Safe Water which forces us to drink
dirty water our children get sick
frequently and suffer from malnutrition
and
cold relief organizations warn that the
aid entering the Gaza Strip covers only
10% of its needs
rudimentary Comforts such as blankets
mattresses and Tents are in dangerously
short
supply you see how we live here in the
tent we have no clothes to protect us
from the cold we do not have bed covers
there's not enough food and we are
suffering from
Hunger 17 people live here in this tent
and there are only three beds and three
bed covers as you can see there's no
roof to protect us from the rain and the
tent is
dilapidated re and her family have been
appealing for blankets and other
donations and distributing these to
those most needy across the camp yet
many remain extremely vulnerable in
harsh weather
conditions we fled here after the house
next to our were struck my daughter was
injured so we had to get out
fast we had very few things with us when
we came here to Rafa we had little
clothes but it's not enough it's cold in
the tend it's not cool in the summer and
not warm in the
winter when it rains the T fills with
water shortages of blankets clothing and
tents are just some of the many
challenges facing displaced people here
in Rafa unless greater humanitarian Aid
arrives and soon even valuable work such
as re is unlikely to bring an end to
suffering for more let's now speak to
Hiba Tibi she's the acting Deputy
Regional director for the Middle East
and North Africa for the NGO care and
joins us now from Aman uh hea the war
between Hamas and Israel has now been
waged for 100 days with no end Insight
how is your staff
coping good morning dear I wish I can
bring better good news uh around how my
team is doing uh they are still very
similar to what you have just shown on
the report um they are among those who
have uh who have lost their houses who
are suffering to secure their their
needs their family basic needs but in
the same time they are the ones who are
running our vention in Gaza in help with
and support of our partners uh other
inos and NOS who work in the same field
they put the needs of people before the
needs of their families and they jump
into the distribution of of our our
humanitarian assistance using every
chance that we have to fight uh the time
against weather against potential
strikes and trying to reach out to as
many people as possible let's talk about
those people in need we've been hearing
particular about the strain on women and
children what are you hearing from the
ground specifically about the challenges
uh and and what are doing to help
them so one of the focus main areas of
our work in Gaza is to work with women
specifically pregnant women and those
who give birth to the newly give birth
to babies in 100 days normally the child
would have a trans a transformation
process where they start to de their
sleeping pattern their coord
communication with the out the outward a
nutrition related uh uh patterns and you
can imagine in the last 100 days the
number of women who went to give birth
under very harsh circumstances very
afraid of giving birth for two reasons
either for complications that can happen
with them without a medical system but
also from the very unknown future for
them and for their babies um and this
this is something that we have seen
however one thing I want to share with
you as you know in these 100 days the
babies themselves the children that you
have also shown in your on a few seconds
ago in the in the report their images
they are the most innocent actors and
they still give us and their mothers the
hope for the future their reactions
their smiles even for very simple things
like the very basic food that they
receive or the a hug from their mother
to give them warmth in the in the night
without any without being in their
houses or
shelters uh that is uh Hiba Tibi Deputy
Regional director for the Middle East
and North Africa for care many thanks
Diva thank
you